---
title: Quizzing
date: 25 May 2019
permalink: /quizzing
layout: post
---

Quizzing might seem a bit daunting at first, but when you get to a certain level, answering a question on the stage after reading about the subject a few weeks prior can be extremely rewarding.

To start off, you need to know what quizzing actually is: it's not a one line question with multiple choices for the answer; it's more of a paragraph-long puzzle, where you connect subtle hints within the question and apply your knowledge of technology to come to an answer. It's important to know that quizzers are rarely certain of an answer, and risk-taking is a must.

We must emphasize that you shouldn't mug up questions - that's not what quizzing is about. It might help you in a quiz or two, but that's not what makes you a quizzer. Contrary to what some people may think, quizzing is as much a creative skill as programming or design. A good quiz will not only exercise your memory, but also require you to apply your critical thinking skills to the problem. You may need to analyze a question for getting hints out of it and using them to reach the answer.

The first step to becoming a tech quizzer, is to build a base upon which your entire quizzing journey will lie. Basics like CEOs, founders, major tech events in history (like [the Y2K bug](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Year_2000_problem)) and just general tech history (for example, knowledge about Fairchild Semiconductor) are a must. They aren't asked about much in quizzes, but they give you context about the history of technology. You may think, because they aren’t asked usually, you can skip this. But this part will definitely help you when trying to work a question out.

Secondly, and more importantly, you have to stay up to date with what's going on in tech. This is an integral part of what makes a good quizzer. A few tech journals that will help you keep up are [The Verge](https://www.theverge.com/), [TechCrunch](https://techcrunch.com/) and [The Next Web](https://techcrunch.com/). If you use Facebook, you can follow the pages for these tech journals so you see tech news in your feed, or you can use a news app like Flipboard and follow the technology section. If you don’t have the time, during last minute preparations, to read long articles, you could go through the technology section on [InShorts](https://inshorts.com/).

Just to provide clarity to this tutorial, we'll walk you through the process of figuring out the answer to a question.

## Example Question

X is a fairly intuitive company known for its witty campaigns. X has _built_ this reputation _for themselves_ after repeatedly releasing hilarious ad campaigns aimed at Apple.

2014: "Once in a while, something comes along that changes the way we live, a device so simple and intuitive, using it feels almost familiar," said _Jorgen Eghammer_, the "chief design guru" in the ad for a revolutionary product from X, the bookbook. This ad campaign was meant as a jab at Apple for the launch of the Mac.

2017: “This changes everything.” became “This charges everything.” While “Think Different.” is now “Link Different.” in the ad campaign for the revamped wireless chargers.

What is X?

## How to work it out

The italics are a clear indication of the keywords

When you think of the words 'company’, 'build’ and ‘themselves’, you might think of a company which makes people build things themselves. So maybe something to do with vehicles or furniture.

Jorgen Eghammer, while probably a fictional name, sounds quite Scandinavian.

The 2017 part in the question points towards the current events nature of the question, and Ikea’s ad campaign in 2017 raised a lot of objections from Apple fans.

So a Scandinavian company that makes you build things yourself and recently had an ad campaign?  
There you have your answer, Ikea.
